docs/src/turing.md, before:

# Parameter Estimation with Turing


It is possible to use [Turing.jl](https://turinglang.org/stable/) to perform Bayesian parameter estimation on models defined in SequentialSamplingModels.jl. Below, we show you how to estimate the parameters for the Linear Ballistic Accumulator (LBA) and to use it to estimate effects.


## Simple Example

### Load Packages

The first step is to load the required packages. You will need to install each package in your local
environment in order to run the code locally. We will also set a random number generator so that the results are reproducible.

```@setup Turing
using Turing
using SequentialSamplingModels
using Random
using LinearAlgebra
using StatsPlots

Random.seed!(45461)
```

### Generate Data

We will use the [LBA](https://itsdfish.github.io/SequentialSamplingModels.jl/dev/lba/) distribution to simulate data (100 trials) with fixed parameters (those we want to recover only from the data using Bayesian modeling).

```@example Turing
# Generate some data with known parameters
dist = LBA(ν=[3.0, 2.0], A = .8, k = .2, τ = .3)
data = rand(dist, 100)
```

### Specify Turing Model

The code snippet below defines a model in Turing. The model function accepts a tuple containing
a vector of choices and a vector of reaction times. The sampling statements define the prior distributions for each parameter. The non-decision time parameter $\tau$ must be founded by the minimum reaction time, `min_rt`. The last sampling statement defines the likelihood of the data given the sampled parameter values.

```@example Turing
# Specify LBA model
@model function model_lba(data; min_rt = minimum(data[2]))
    # Priors
    ν ~ MvNormal(zeros(2), I * 2)
    A ~ truncated(Normal(.8, .4), 0.0, Inf)
    k ~ truncated(Normal(.2, .2), 0.0, Inf)
    τ  ~ Uniform(0.0, min_rt)

    # Likelihood
    data ~ LBA(;ν, A, k, τ )
end
```


### Estimate the Parameters

Finally, we perform parameter estimation with `sample()`, which takes the model, and details about the sampling algorithm:

1. `model(data)`: the Turing model with data passed
2. `NUTS(1000, .65)`: a sampler object for the No U-Turn Sampler for 1000 warmup samples.
3. `MCMCThreads()`: instructs turing to run each chain on a seperate thread
4. `n_iterations`: the number of iterations performed after warmup
5. `n_chains`: the number of chains

```@example Turing
# Estimate parameters
chain = sample(model_lba(data), NUTS(1000, .85), MCMCThreads(), 1000, 4)
```

### Posterior Summary

We can compute a description of the posterior distributions.

```@example Turing
# Summarize posteriors
summarystats(chain)
```

As one can see, the parameters (`ν=[3.0, 2.0], A = .8, k = .2, τ = .3`) are successfully recovered from the data.


### Evaluation

It is important to verify that the chains converged. We see that the chains converged according to $\hat{r} \leq 1.05$, and the trace plots below show that the chains look like "hairy caterpillars", which indicates the chains did not get stuck. As expected, the posterior distributions are close to the data generating parameter values.

```@example Turing
plot(chain, grid=false)
```

### Posterior Predictive Distribution

With `predict`, it is possible to sample from the posterior predictive distribution, as follows.

```@example Turing
predictions = predict(model_lba(missing; min_rt = minimum(data[2])), chain)
```

In the following code block, we plot the predictive distributions for each choice.

```@example Turing
choices = predictions.value[:,1,:][:]
rts = predictions.value[:,2,:][:]
# rts for option 1
rts1 = rts[choices .== 1]
# rts for option 2
rts2 = rts[choices .== 2]
# probability of choosing 1
p1 = length(rts1) / length(rts)
# histogram of retrieval times
hist = histogram(layout=(2,1), leg=false, grid=false,
     xlabel="Reaction Time", ylabel="Density", xlims = (0,1), ylims=(0,4))
histogram!(rts1, subplot=1, color=:grey, bins = 300, norm=true, title="Choice 1")
histogram!(rts2, subplot=2, color=:grey, bins = 300, norm=true, title="Choice 2")
# weight histogram according to choice probability
hist[1][1][:y] *= p1
hist[2][1][:y] *= (1 - p1)
hist
```

### Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE)

Note that one can also perform a maximum likelihood estimation to estimate the parameters under the Frequentist framework.

```@example Turing
# using Optim

# mle = optimize(model_lba(data), MLE())
```

*TODO: replace with `coeftable` once [this](https://github.com/TuringLang/Turing.jl/) is merged*


## Effect of a Condition on Multiple Parameters

### Generate Data

In this example, we will get closer to real use-cases by starting with the data stored in a `DataFrame`. This dataframe will be a combination of data generated from two different distributions with different parameters, corresponding to two experimental conditions (e.g., Speed vs. Accuracy).

```@example Turing
using Turing
using SequentialSamplingModels
using Random
using LinearAlgebra
using Distributions
using DataFrames
using StatsPlots
using StatsModels
using KernelDensity


# Generate data with different drifts for two conditions A vs. B
Random.seed!(254)
df1 = DataFrame(rand(LBA(ν=[0.5, 0.0], A=0.5, k=0.5, τ=0.3), 500))
df1[!, :condition] = repeat(["A"], nrow(df1))
df2 = DataFrame(rand(LBA(ν=[1.0, 1.5], A=0.5, k=0.2, τ=0.3), 500))
df2[!, :condition] = repeat(["B"], nrow(df2))

df = vcat(df1, df2)
```

These 2 conditions *A* and *B* differ on their drift rates (`[0.5, 0.0]` vs. `[1.0, 1.5]`) and on threshold *k* (`0.5` vs. `0.2`)

### Visualize Data

We can visualize the RT distribution for each response choice by looping through the conditions.

```@example Turing
# Make histogram
histogram(layout=(2, 1), xlabel="Reaction Time", ylims=(0, 350), xlims=(0, 3), legend=false)
for (i, cond) in enumerate(["A", "B"])
    histogram!(df.rt[(df.choice.==1).&(df.condition.==cond)], subplot=1, color=[:blue, :red][i], alpha=0.5, bins=range(0, 3, length=100))
    histogram!(df.rt[(df.choice.==2).&(df.condition.==cond)], subplot=2, color=[:blue, :red][i], alpha=0.5, bins=range(0, 3, length=100))
end
plot!()
```

### Format Predictors

One additional step that we need to do here is to transform the dataframe into an input suited for modelling with Turing. For that, we will leverage the features of `StatsModels` to build an input matrix based on a formula.

```@example Turing
# Format input data
f = @formula(rt ~ 1 + condition)
f = apply_schema(f, schema(f, df))

_, predictors = coefnames(f)
X = modelmatrix(f, df)
```

In this case, the model matrix is pretty simple: the key part is the second column that is simply a binary vector indicating whenever `condition == "B"`. However, using formulas is a good way of dealing with more complex model specifications.

### Specify Turing Model

In this model, the priors for the parameters that we want to vary between conditions are split, with one prior for their intercept (condition A) and another for the effect of condition B (relative to the intercept).

Because the *drift* parameters is a vector of length 2, the priors for both the intercet and condition effect drifts have themselves to be a vector of 2 distributions, which is done via `filldist(prior_distribution, 2)`.

Next, we need to specify these parameters as the result of a (linear) equation. Note that:
- We have added a keyword argument, `condition`, to let the user pass the condition data vector.
- Since we're computing parameters as the results of an equation, we need to use a `for` loop that loops through all the observations.
- Because the priors for the drift is a `filldist` (i.e., a vector of distributions), we need to broadcast the addition (`.+` instead of `+`).

```@example Turing
@model function model_lba(data; min_rt=0.2, condition=nothing)
    # Priors for auxiliary parameters
    A ~ truncated(Normal(0.8, 0.4), 0.0, Inf)
    tau ~ Uniform(0.0, min_rt)

    # Priors for k
    k_intercept ~ truncated(Normal(0.2, 0.2), 0.0, Inf)
    k_condition ~ Normal(0, 0.05)

    # Priors for coefficients
    drift_intercept ~ filldist(Normal(0, 1), 2)
    drift_condition ~ filldist(Normal(0, 1), 2)

    for i in 1:length(data)
        drifts = drift_intercept .+ drift_condition * condition[i]
        k = k_intercept + k_condition * condition[i]
        data[i] ~ LBA(; τ=tau, A=A, k=k, ν=drifts)
    end
end
```

Importantly, although we have the data as a dataframe, we will need to convert to a tuple, as it is the shape that the `LBA()` distribution expects. However, since we're iterating on each observation, we need to come up with an indexable version of the data: a **vector of tuples**.

```@example Turing
# Format the data to match the input type
data = [(choice=df.choice[i], rt=df.rt[i]) for i in 1:nrow(df)]
```

### Prior Predictive Check

#### Sample from Priors

Before we fit the model, we want to inspect our priors to make sure that they are okay. To do that, we sample the model parameters from priors only. Note that `condition` is supplied as the 2nd column of the model matrix.

```@example Turing
chain = sample(model_lba(data; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), Prior(), 10_000)
StatsPlots.plot(chain; size=(600, 2000))
```

#### Plot Prior Predictive Check

The next step is to generate ***predictions*** from this model (i.e., from the priors). For this, we need to pass a dataset with empty (`missing`) values. Since the `data` used above was a vector (of tuples) of length 1000, we will create a vector of `(missing)` of the same length.

We can then use the `predict()` method to generate predictions from this model. However, because the most of `SequentialSamplingModels` distributions return a tuple (choice and RT), the predicted output has the two types of variables mixed together. We can delineate the two by taking every 2nd values to get the predicted choice and RTs, respectively.


```@example Turing
datamissing = [(missing) for i in 1:nrow(df)]

pred = predict(model_lba(datamissing; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), chain)

priorpred_choice = Array(pred)[:, 1:2:end]
priorpred_rt = Array(pred)[:, 2:2:end]
```

These objects have arrays of size 10,000 x 1000 : with 10,000 draws for each of the 1000 observations.

We can plot the predicted distributions by looping through a number of draws (e.g., 100), and then plotting the density for each condition and each choice.

```@example Turing
plot(layout=(2, 1), xlabel="Reaction Time", xlims = (0, 3), ylim=(0, 5), legend = false)
for i in 1:100
    choice = priorpred_choice[i, :]
    rt = priorpred_rt[i, :]
    for (j, cond) in enumerate([0, 1])
        U1 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice .== 1) .& (X[:, 2] .== cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U1.x, U1.density, subplot=1, color = [:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.1)
        U2 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice .== 2) .& (X[:, 2] .== cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U2.x, U2.density, subplot=2, color = [:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.1)
    end
end
plot!()
```

We can see that the bulk of the predicted RTs fall within 0 - 1.5 seconds, which is realistic, but that the same time it's all over the place, which means that the priors are not too informative.

### Parameters Estimation

```@example Turing
chain = sample(model_lba(data; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), NUTS(), 2000)

summarystats(chain)
```

```@example Turing
StatsPlots.plot(chain; size=(600, 2000)
```

### Posterior Predictive Check

Next, we will run a posterior predictive check by first sampling from the posteriors. For that, we will re-use the code for the prior predictive check, including the `datamissing` empty data.


```@example Turing
# Sample from posteriors
pred = predict(model_lba(datamissing; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), chain)
pred_choice = Array(pred)[:, 1:2:end]
pred_rt = Array(pred)[:, 2:2:end]
```

Next, we will plot the predicted distributions on top of the observed distribution of data (the thick black lines).

```@example Turing
# Observed density
plot(layout=(2, 1), xlabel="Reaction Time", xlims=(0, 2.5), legend=false)
for cond in ["A", "B"]
    d_A = KernelDensity.kde(df.rt[(df.choice.==1).&(df.condition.==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
    plot!(d_A.x, d_A.density, subplot=1, color=:black, linewidth=3)
    d_B = KernelDensity.kde(df.rt[(df.choice.==2).&(df.condition.==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
    plot!(d_B.x, d_B.density, subplot=2, color=:black, linewidth=3)
end

# Predicted densities
for i in 1:100
    choice = pred_choice[i, :]
    rt = pred_rt[i, :]
    for (j, cond) in enumerate([0, 1])
        U1 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice.==1).&(X[:, 2].==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U1.x, U1.density, subplot=1, color=[:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.05)
        U2 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice.==2).&(X[:, 2].==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U2.x, U2.density, subplot=2, color=[:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.05)
    end
end
plot!()
```

As we can see, the model predicts well the shape of the data.

## Random Effects

**WIP.**

Commit message:

remove outliers to remove extreme values

docs/src/turing.md, after:

# Parameter Estimation with Turing


It is possible to use [Turing.jl](https://turinglang.org/stable/) to perform Bayesian parameter estimation on models defined in SequentialSamplingModels.jl. Below, we show you how to estimate the parameters for the Linear Ballistic Accumulator (LBA) and to use it to estimate effects.


## Simple Example

### Load Packages

The first step is to load the required packages. You will need to install each package in your local
environment in order to run the code locally. We will also set a random number generator so that the results are reproducible.

```@setup Turing
using Turing
using SequentialSamplingModels
using Random
using LinearAlgebra
using StatsPlots

Random.seed!(45461)
```

### Generate Data

We will use the [LBA](https://itsdfish.github.io/SequentialSamplingModels.jl/dev/lba/) distribution to simulate data (100 trials) with fixed parameters (those we want to recover only from the data using Bayesian modeling).

```@example Turing
# Generate some data with known parameters
dist = LBA(ν=[3.0, 2.0], A = .8, k = .2, τ = .3)
data = rand(dist, 100)
```

### Specify Turing Model

The code snippet below defines a model in Turing. The model function accepts a tuple containing
a vector of choices and a vector of reaction times. The sampling statements define the prior distributions for each parameter. The non-decision time parameter $\tau$ must be founded by the minimum reaction time, `min_rt`. The last sampling statement defines the likelihood of the data given the sampled parameter values.

```@example Turing
# Specify LBA model
@model function model_lba(data; min_rt = minimum(data[2]))
    # Priors
    ν ~ MvNormal(zeros(2), I * 2)
    A ~ truncated(Normal(.8, .4), 0.0, Inf)
    k ~ truncated(Normal(.2, .2), 0.0, Inf)
    τ  ~ Uniform(0.0, min_rt)

    # Likelihood
    data ~ LBA(;ν, A, k, τ )
end
```


### Estimate the Parameters

Finally, we perform parameter estimation with `sample()`, which takes the model, and details about the sampling algorithm:

1. `model(data)`: the Turing model with data passed
2. `NUTS(1000, .65)`: a sampler object for the No U-Turn Sampler for 1000 warmup samples.
3. `MCMCThreads()`: instructs turing to run each chain on a seperate thread
4. `n_iterations`: the number of iterations performed after warmup
5. `n_chains`: the number of chains

```@example Turing
# Estimate parameters
chain = sample(model_lba(data), NUTS(1000, .85), MCMCThreads(), 1000, 4)
```

### Posterior Summary

We can compute a description of the posterior distributions.

```@example Turing
# Summarize posteriors
summarystats(chain)
```

As one can see, the parameters (`ν=[3.0, 2.0], A = .8, k = .2, τ = .3`) are successfully recovered from the data.


### Evaluation

It is important to verify that the chains converged. We see that the chains converged according to $\hat{r} \leq 1.05$, and the trace plots below show that the chains look like "hairy caterpillars", which indicates the chains did not get stuck. As expected, the posterior distributions are close to the data generating parameter values.

```@example Turing
plot(chain, grid=false)
```

### Posterior Predictive Distribution

With `predict`, it is possible to sample from the posterior predictive distribution, as follows.

```@example Turing
predictions = predict(model_lba(missing; min_rt = minimum(data[2])), chain)
```

In the following code block, we plot the predictive distributions for each choice.

```@example Turing
choices = predictions.value[:,1,:][:]
rts = predictions.value[:,2,:][:]
# rts for option 1
rts1 = rts[choices .== 1]
# rts for option 2
rts2 = rts[choices .== 2]
# probability of choosing 1
p1 = length(rts1) / length(rts)
# histogram of retrieval times
hist = histogram(layout=(2,1), leg=false, grid=false,
     xlabel="Reaction Time", ylabel="Density", xlims = (0,1), ylims=(0,4))
histogram!(rts1, subplot=1, color=:grey, bins = 300, norm=true, title="Choice 1")
histogram!(rts2, subplot=2, color=:grey, bins = 300, norm=true, title="Choice 2")
# weight histogram according to choice probability
hist[1][1][:y] *= p1
hist[2][1][:y] *= (1 - p1)
hist
```

### Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE)

Note that one can also perform a maximum likelihood estimation to estimate the parameters under the Frequentist framework.

```@example Turing
# using Optim

# mle = optimize(model_lba(data), MLE())
```

*TODO: replace with `coeftable` once [this](https://github.com/TuringLang/Turing.jl/) is merged*


## Effect of a Condition on Multiple Parameters

### Generate Data

In this example, we will get closer to real use-cases by starting with the data stored in a `DataFrame`. This dataframe will be a combination of data generated from two different distributions with different parameters, corresponding to two experimental conditions (e.g., Speed vs. Accuracy).

```@example Turing
using Turing
using SequentialSamplingModels
using Random
using LinearAlgebra
using Distributions
using DataFrames
using StatsPlots
using StatsModels
using KernelDensity


# Generate data with different drifts for two conditions A vs. B
Random.seed!(6)
df1 = DataFrame(rand(LBA(ν=[1.5, 0.5], A=0.5, k=0.5, τ=0.3), 500))
df1[!, :condition] = repeat(["A"], nrow(df1))
df2 = DataFrame(rand(LBA(ν=[2.0, 1.0], A=0.5, k=0.2, τ=0.3), 500))
df2[!, :condition] = repeat(["B"], nrow(df2))

df = vcat(df1, df2)
```

These 2 conditions *A* and *B* differ on their drift rates (`[1.5, 0.5]` vs. `[2.0, 1.0]`) and on threshold *k* (`0.5` vs. `0.2`)

### Exclude Outliers

Next, we are going to remove outliers, i.e., implausible RTs (RTs that likely do not reflect the processes of interest). In our case, we consider that RTs shorter than 0.2 seconds are too short for the cognitive process of interest to unfold, and that RTs longer than 3 seconds are too long to be of interest.

```@example Turing
# Remove outliers
df = df[(df.rt.>0.2).&(df.rt.<3), :]
```

Note that standard outlier detection methods, such as *z*-scores (mean +- SD), are not necessarily appropriate for RTs, given the skewed nature of their distribution. Their asymmetric distribution is in fact accounted for by the models that we use. The outlier exclusion done here is more theory-driven (i.e., excluding extreme trials that likely do not reflect well the cognitive processes of interest) than data-driven (to better fit the model). That said, outlier exclusion should always be explicitly documented and justified.


### Visualize Data

We can visualize the RT distribution for each response choice by looping through the conditions.

```@example Turing
# Make histogram
histogram(layout=(2, 1), xlabel="Reaction Time", ylims=(0, 60), xlims=(0, 3), legend=false)
for (i, cond) in enumerate(["A", "B"])
    histogram!(df.rt[(df.choice.==1).&(df.condition.==cond)], subplot=1, color=[:blue, :red][i], alpha=0.5, bins=range(0, 3, length=100))
    histogram!(df.rt[(df.choice.==2).&(df.condition.==cond)], subplot=2, color=[:blue, :red][i], alpha=0.5, bins=range(0, 3, length=100))
end
plot!()
```

### Format Predictors

One additional step that we need to do here is to transform the dataframe into an input suited for modelling with Turing. For that, we will leverage the features of `StatsModels` to build an input matrix based on a formula.

```@example Turing
# Format input data
f = @formula(rt ~ 1 + condition)
f = apply_schema(f, schema(f, df))

_, predictors = coefnames(f)
X = modelmatrix(f, df)
```

In this case, the model matrix is pretty simple: the key part is the second column that is simply a binary vector indicating whenever `condition == "B"`. However, using formulas is a good way of dealing with more complex model specifications.

### Specify Turing Model

In this model, the priors for the parameters that we want to vary between conditions are split, with one prior for their intercept (condition A) and another for the effect of condition B (relative to the intercept).

Because the *drift* parameters is a vector of length 2, the priors for both the intercet and condition effect drifts have themselves to be a vector of 2 distributions, which is done via `filldist(prior_distribution, 2)`.

Next, we need to specify these parameters as the result of a (linear) equation. Note that:
- We have added a keyword argument, `condition`, to let the user pass the condition data vector.
- Since we're computing parameters as the results of an equation, we need to use a `for` loop that loops through all the observations.
- Because the priors for the drift is a `filldist` (i.e., a vector of distributions), we need to broadcast the addition (`.+` instead of `+`).

```@example Turing
@model function model_lba(data; min_rt=0.2, condition=nothing)
    # Priors for auxiliary parameters
    A ~ truncated(Normal(0.8, 0.4), 0.0, Inf)
    tau ~ Uniform(0.0, min_rt)

    # Priors for k
    k_intercept ~ truncated(Normal(0.2, 0.2), 0.0, Inf)
    k_condition ~ Normal(0, 0.05)

    # Priors for coefficients
    drift_intercept ~ filldist(Normal(0, 1), 2)
    drift_condition ~ filldist(Normal(0, 1), 2)

    for i in 1:length(data)
        drifts = drift_intercept .+ drift_condition * condition[i]
        k = k_intercept + k_condition * condition[i]
        data[i] ~ LBA(; τ=tau, A=A, k=k, ν=drifts)
    end
end
```

Importantly, although we have the data as a dataframe, we will need to convert to a tuple, as it is the shape that the `LBA()` distribution expects. However, since we're iterating on each observation, we need to come up with an indexable version of the data: a **vector of tuples**.

```@example Turing
# Format the data to match the input type
data = [(choice=df.choice[i], rt=df.rt[i]) for i in 1:nrow(df)]
```

### Prior Predictive Check

#### Sample from Priors

Before we fit the model, we want to inspect our priors to make sure that they are okay. To do that, we sample the model parameters from priors only. Note that `condition` is supplied as the 2nd column of the model matrix.

```@example Turing
chain = sample(model_lba(data; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), Prior(), 10_000)
StatsPlots.plot(chain; size=(600, 2000))
```

#### Plot Prior Predictive Check

The next step is to generate ***predictions*** from this model (i.e., from the priors). For this, we need to pass a dataset with empty (`missing`) values. Since the `data` used above was a vector (of tuples) of length 1000, we will create a vector of `(missing)` of the same length.

We can then use the `predict()` method to generate predictions from this model. However, because the most of `SequentialSamplingModels` distributions return a tuple (choice and RT), the predicted output has the two types of variables mixed together. We can delineate the two by taking every 2nd values to get the predicted choice and RTs, respectively.


```@example Turing
datamissing = [(missing) for i in 1:nrow(df)]

pred = predict(model_lba(datamissing; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), chain)

priorpred_choice = Array(pred)[:, 1:2:end]
priorpred_rt = Array(pred)[:, 2:2:end]
```

These objects have arrays of size 10,000 x 1000 : with 10,000 draws for each of the 1000 observations.

We can plot the predicted distributions by looping through a number of draws (e.g., 100), and then plotting the density for each condition and each choice.

```@example Turing
plot(layout=(2, 1), xlabel="Reaction Time", xlims = (0, 3), ylim=(0, 5), legend = false)
for i in 1:100
    choice = priorpred_choice[i, :]
    rt = priorpred_rt[i, :]
    for (j, cond) in enumerate([0, 1])
        U1 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice .== 1) .& (X[:, 2] .== cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U1.x, U1.density, subplot=1, color = [:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.1)
        U2 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice .== 2) .& (X[:, 2] .== cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U2.x, U2.density, subplot=2, color = [:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.1)
    end
end
plot!()
```

We can see that the bulk of the predicted RTs fall within 0 - 1.5 seconds, which is realistic, but that the same time it's all over the place, which means that the priors are not too informative.

### Parameters Estimation

```@example Turing
chain = sample(model_lba(data; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), NUTS(), 2000)

summarystats(chain)
```

```@example Turing
StatsPlots.plot(chain; size=(600, 2000)
```

### Posterior Predictive Check

Next, we will run a posterior predictive check by first sampling from the posteriors. For that, we will re-use the code for the prior predictive check, including the `datamissing` empty data.


```@example Turing
# Sample from posteriors
pred = predict(model_lba(datamissing; min_rt=minimum(df.rt), condition=X[:, 2]), chain)
pred_choice = Array(pred)[:, 1:2:end]
pred_rt = Array(pred)[:, 2:2:end]
```

Next, we will plot the predicted distributions on top of the observed distribution of data (the thick black lines).

```@example Turing
# Observed density
plot(layout=(2, 1), xlabel="Reaction Time", xlims=(0, 2.5), legend=false)
for cond in ["A", "B"]
    d_A = KernelDensity.kde(df.rt[(df.choice.==1).&(df.condition.==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
    plot!(d_A.x, d_A.density, subplot=1, color=:black, linewidth=3)
    d_B = KernelDensity.kde(df.rt[(df.choice.==2).&(df.condition.==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
    plot!(d_B.x, d_B.density, subplot=2, color=:black, linewidth=3)
end

# Predicted densities
for i in 1:100
    choice = pred_choice[i, :]
    rt = pred_rt[i, :]
    for (j, cond) in enumerate([0, 1])
        U1 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice.==1).&(X[:, 2].==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U1.x, U1.density, subplot=1, color=[:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.05)
        U2 = KernelDensity.kde(rt[(choice.==2).&(X[:, 2].==cond)], boundary=(0, 5))
        plot!(U2.x, U2.density, subplot=2, color=[:red, :blue][j], alpha=0.05)
    end
end
plot!()
```

As we can see, the model predicts well the shape of the data.

## Random Effects

**WIP.**
